*SUMMARY*

The most important and interesting observations that I collected can be grouped into two distinct categories: online and in person. They can also be grouped into subcategories from that point, the main two of which are communication and environment. Online, with respect to communication I noticed that people’s wifi was cutting out, microphones sometimes failed or people did not realize they were muted, and people would often turn off their cameras and therefore not participate in class discussions. Meanwhile, with respect to the environment I noticed the lack of a commute, leaving me more time to do work, I noticed (obviously) that I could not hang out with my friends physically, and I noticed that to eat food I simply had to go in the kitchen and take something out of the refrigerator. In person, communication was noticeably less rigid, as students could stop teachers in the hallway to quickly ask them questions, students were hanging out in groups, and the reality of everyone being in the same classroom encouraged people to pay closer attention. The environment was drastically different in person, with students having long commutes, people doing copious amounts of littering, and teachers frequently having to break up clustered groups of students.

*ANALYSIS*

From analyzing all the observations that I collected, I concluded that while communication may be harder online, it is far harder to keep a safe environment in person. The problems with communication stem from a lack of energy and presence, both in the metaphorical and literal sense. Metaphorically, the energy in a zoom call is limited, even nonexistent, Because everyone involved is staring blankly at and talking to their screens instead of being physically surrounded by their peers. Breakout rooms are a great idea to encourage discussion among students but are sometimes completely silent, as it is harder to initiate conversations when one isn’t sharing a space with his/her/their partners. The “energy” in a literal sense could refer to the problems with the wifi, microphones, videos, etc. These existing, however, amplifies the metaphorical problems even more by further limiting the energy of the classroom. Essentially, communication, participation, and learning are handicapped both by a lack of energy and a lack of connectivity.

While communication is certainly harder, the lack of a physical space shared by the students and teachers ensures a cleaner and safer environment. Littering is obviously a practice by Horace Mann students that existed long before COVID, but confining students to the field during mealtimes has led to boxes and food scattered everywhere outside. With students eating from home and having ample time to do so, a clean space is preserved. Additionally, working from home is much safer in relation to COVID and social distancing, because students cannot congregate in large groups, and they are expected to quarantine in order to limit the potential infection of their peers when they return to in-person school.

*PROCESS*

The first step of my observation process was to take notes online. I knew from the start that I wanted to compare and contrast the behaviors of online school with those of in-person school. At school, I took notes with a couple of other students during the last class period. The main methods that I tried were walking around campus to observe typical student and teacher behavior, and thinking of other observations to include off the top of my head. I tried my best to include observations that were comparable to those of online school, such as the length of commute or the gathering of students. From this lab, I learned a lot about grouping observations in order to prove a point. When originally taking notes both online and in person, I was unsure whether or not these points were all linked, so it was gratifying to see that I could organize them into sections and subsections and uncover a deeper analysis of them.

